The Joe Rogan experience. The reason why I ask if you ever seen, uh, images of,
uh, indigenous people in the Amazon that walk around barefoot and their feet,
literally start to look like hands. They splay out in a very bizarre way.
I haven't seen those particular pictures,
but I do know that people that walk around on shod, you know, so in other words,
without shoes tend to develop these toes that are more divergent, not,
not opposable like a primate,
but for whatever reason about being on shot, it just gives you,
you know, you look at the toe and it's like, it's, it's like visibly separated.
Yes. Picture of it right now on the screen we're sharing. And it's.
A very strange where it's,
it's almost like they're gripping the ground with their toes and the toes are
very thick and strong because they're,
they're constantly walking around barefoot and they,
they use their toes and the toe muscles in a way that we don't use them anymore
because we were essentially were in casts with our.
Shoes. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, what's really interesting about me,
me look at like modern adaptation adaptations of modern humans, you know,
and all these different pockets of the world, or, you know, particular,
when you look into all these ancient species, which are even weirder,
is that you realize there's, there's nothing about our form.
That's like an end destination. There's nothing about our form. That is like,
we know we have arrived at this was, you know, we're primates,
we're going the whole time. It's um, you know,
if you want to talk about who are the weird ones, it's,
it's not all these other things. It's like the modern humans are weird.
We've got these big heads, we've got this funny way of walking. We're bald,
you know, and we've married so much. Yeah. And we, we, we,
we very, and, and then, um, you know, there's,
there's all these kinds of myths about why, I mean, God,
there's so many myths in the field of, of human origins,
but one of them is you've probably heard about like, uh,
the divine proportions or like golden ratio that humans were constructed,
you know, according to the,
into these ratios and like the so-called golden ratio. I mean, it's just,
this is just storytelling, you know, I mean,
there's nothing about our proportions or proportions are just a function of
adaptation. They're a function of, of evolutionary biology. And, you know,
when certain chemicals are released and developmental process that governs how
long your limbs grow or your digits or whatever. Um,
but there's, you know,
we are just all variations of primate.
We're just, we're just one of them. And so, um, yeah, so,
so sometimes you see, uh,
literature or people positing that, you know,
somehow there was something like an N w we've reached some sort of end state,
or, and I'll tell you, and we're not reaching that state.
We're just a variation of, you know, creatures that have
an adapt, you know, it's just these common elements and adapt them, you know,
for different, for, you know,
for different and modern.
Humans though. We do very,
size-wise much more than ancient apes that we find though, correct.
Like we don't find, like for instance, like we, you know,
mountain from the game of Thrones that enormous, giant human being,
that's a human being.
I, I don't, I, I should confess I'm. I am, uh, um, uh,
sort of illiterate when it comes to, uh, pop culture.
My kids would know, I need to turn to them. You know, I'm kind of like,
he's literally.
One of the world's strongest man,
and he's like seven feet plus tall 300 plus pounds enormous.
But my point was that like that he exists as a human being.
Also Chris rock is a human being and he's a very thin,
very small man, like, but there are both human beings.
We don't find that when you're looking at things like Neanderthal
or where you're looking at AI, you find much more uniformity, is that correct?
No, not necessarily, actually, actually in some cases, there's,
there's a lot of variation and I'll give you one good example.
So Lucy, you know,
there's this famous fossil Lucy was,
the species is called Australopithecus,
afarensis named apparatus after the fr you know,
this part of the world that I was describing the fr depression. Um,
she was discovered in 1974, she's very petite, uh, probably a female. Uh,
and I forget how tall she is, but it's like three foot something and.
Already, already as a female to correct.
Our art is a FEMA are Ortiz, taller RTS, uh, you know,
I head taller than, than Lucy. But anyway, so with Lucy, you know,
w when her skeleton was found, you know, this was, um, uh, you know,
the only skeleton of that species, they had a lot of other pieces of things,
but no skeletons, but there,
there was this assumption that that species was small and, uh,
or at least the female, and now, uh,
thanks to some other work that's done in Ethiopia at a place called origins and
LA. Um, a few years ago,
a team announced discovery of another skeleton of Lucy species. It's a male,
it's a lot bigger than Lucy. They call it kinda numer,
which is a fr word for big guy. Uh,
but it's the same species as Lucy, but it's a big guy, you know,
substantially taller.
So it's sort of falsifies this idea that all Lucy's species was
petite. So interesting. And why is that? Is that because it's a,
there's a so-called sexual dimorphism of males are bigger than females,
or is it just a different population or is that just, you know,
just a difference in, in, uh, you know,
the normal range within a population, you know, like, you know,
short people and tall people, you know, in our, you know, in any population, I,
I don't know what the answer is to the tour,
and they're both attributed to the same species. So anyway,
just to give you example of a,
a paleo species where there is actually a substantial variation, how much.
Do you know this? Is it between Lucy and this other one?
Um, I it's, I don't know, actually,
I wish I had looked this up before we talked,
because I I'd love to give you a number, but it, it,
the big guy is substantially taller and bigger than Lucy, but,
but the skeletons, uh, they, they have,
you know,
the anatomy is similar enough so that they are attributed to the same species.
And there are similar age, like kind of pneumo.
I think it was like 3.6 million years old. And Lucy's, I think 3.2.
Episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st is December 1st.
They're going to be available everywhere, but after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It'll also be free.
That's all we're asking. Just go download Spotify much. Buh-bye.